Dear DNC

This is going to sound crazy, but I think I’m the candidate you’ve been looking for.

I’m progressive but was raised and have lived in a conservative state, so I know how to navigate and understand conservatism

I’m the antithesis to trump. Anti fascism authoritarianism. I know what made this country great, and it’s not the military.

I understand economics. This bull crap about tariffs (taxes on other countries) needs to go.

I’m a de facto leader, but I don’t want power.

I understand foreign relations. The importance of nato to the security of the world. And we need to sort out this Ukraine situation. And it’s going to take the world working together.

I recognize how China is threatening the world.

I have never served in the military, but have wanted to serve my country but I needed to do it in the right way.

It’s going to be crazy and come out of left field. Which is exactly how we are going to knock them off balance. They won’t know what hit them. But would you rather have a down to earth person in charge, or a billionaire reality star?

I have strong values and strong morals. This country needs to see a leader who will do that.

There are very few people that can do what I can do.

I take the time to understand the root causes, and try to attack those. We have a two party system because we have a first past the goal posts electoral system. Our legislature is the lap dog for corporate America and billionaires because of the sunshine act.

I know I don’t have a lot of experience in the public sector and political arena, but I can learn.

I understand technology at a deep level and can get us on the right track with the emerging AI.

I’m patient and calm. I believe in stoicism. You don’t want a liberal trump like Newsome.

If we start now, we’ll be ready for 2028.

I’ve been to other countries. Our infrastructure; national parks, etc, are lacking and falling behind.

Immigration? I have known many good people who came to this country and want to be members of society to make a better life for their loved ones, because the rest of the world is getting dark. We are a fading beacon of light, we need to shine bright again. But we also need to make it easier for the good people to get in and begin contributing, because our population will decline (like Japan, etc).

A bigger population helps a country grow, and it is necessary to support the aging population. Ie social security.

What are my weaknesses, perceived and otherwise?

I’m not the most charismatic, not the most eloquent.

I am patient and understanding.

I’m not an out of touch millionaire or billionaire. I’m a down to earth person.

Veterans. My stepfather was in the military as was my paternal grandfather, and my nephew. We might disagree with the conflict (eg vietnam, Iraq) but we should always appreciate that those that put their wellbeing and life on the line. We need to be taking care of them, and we are falling short. Many members are struggling with wounds that we can see, but many are also suffering in ways we can’t see.

I spend time learning and understanding our world to understand the systems that make it the way it is. (That is a crappy sentence)

I believe in science and education, because our entire population benefits from an educated populace. Conspiracy theories, pseudoscience, etc threaten our progress. Anti vax. Flat earth. These are growing problems.

You need to take the time to understand the issue, before making a decision. Educate yourself about it. Let your emotions cool. And to do that we need to address the shifting technology landscape. Having someone who understands technology would be powerful these days.

I believe in privacy.

I just want to make the world a better place.

This country and the world needs a reminder of what a good leader should be. No power grabs. Not thin skinned.

The Republicans are going to be weak after this term.

I understand the law the legal system, what it’s aim is, even if it’s not perfect. We should try and improve the system not burn it down.

I’m old enough to have solid life experience, but not too old (what does that look like)

I have a comfortable life. I’m not out for money or notoriety or attention. In fact I normally shy away from attention. But I care about this country, and I’m willing to set that aside to be the leader it needs right now.

I think we can all agree, at this point, that technology can be harmful, especially in the hands of our children. We are creating a generation of people who aren’t able to create human connection. That’s part of my thing: human connection is critical to a society. The less connection you have to the people around you, the more divided we will be. Technology erases that connection.

The more extreme weather events. Us falling behind on electric vehicles. We should be the world leader, but we are falling behind.

Executive orders are bullshit, and should be used sparingly, only in extreme cases. Pardons, need to be cut way, way down.

I want to tell the American people, issues are very complex, and they require nuance. AI holds a lot of promise, but it has potential to do harm as well. We have to be thoughtful as we navigate this technology. We can’t outright block it, you can’t outlaw math. But we need to be thoughtful about how we approach and utilize it.

We need to stop pushing all of society’s problems on the police and teachers. Sending men with guns into situations might not be the best approach.

We need programs that help people be functional.

I don’t think I’m better than anyone else. I o don’t think I’m smarter than anyone else. I don’t think I’m more important than anyone else. But perhaps I spend a little more time ruminating on things. I try to use my higher order thinking a bit more. I don’t think I’m entitled to more than anyone else. I don’t think I am more deserving than anyone else.

But I’m willing to put my life on hold to to make this country a better place, and in turn hopefully make the world a better place.

I’m not getting bogged down in cultural issues. Wear what you want to wear. Is the guy wearing a dress the one keeping food off the table? The two women down the road preventing you from finding a job?








Christian nationalism. Fascism. They are also systems. Pseudoscience, flat earth, intelligent design, etc. are systems.

Reagan said government is the problem. But it is not… something about the lowest common denominator? What should the role of government be in our lives?

I think we’ve covered it, probably in the noise, but we have bogged down the government in all kinds of moral/cultural issues (gay marriage et al) limiting the ability to focus on the real important things.

The court system, reforms. Abuses of the judicial system.


Why America needs me:
I love puzzles, when given a puzzle my single track mind goes to town to understand the system and analyze root causes then develop solutions to address those fundamental problems. I can’t let it go until it’s solved. I want to systematize government, the way I would systematize software.

Cars, computers, humans, animals, plants, geology, meteorology, the solar system, the galaxy, the universe , the sun and other stars, black holes, they are all systems.
And that’s what government and politics are, but they are broken. At every level. In nearly every way. I’m identifying the problems with the systems, and proposing solutions. These aren’t new ideas, they aren’t even my ideas in most cases, but I am packaging them up into clean rational ideas based on logic reason and evidence and putting them in one place. That’s the blueprint.

Let’s fix the system.

I need to connect with other like minded people. And I don’t mean people who agree with me. People who want to fix the system and want to identify the problems.

I don’t know anyone else who can.

This blog is an outlet for all the stuff going through my head all day, all night. I’m trying to be the voice of rationale and reason.

Give me a problem,
Yo, I’ll solve it
Check out the hook
While the DJ revolve it


Here’s what I’m worried about:
Less sophisticated people being able to understand my ideas. I mean, how can I appeal to audiences on both sides and get them to focus on the real issues.

Religion. Religion and religious people are going to be a problem. Religion constrains one’s thinking. Many of these ideas are antithetical to religion. We need to formulate our work in ways that can be understood by people with constrained thinking.






======
I’m a person, but I’m using AI to refine and articulate my ideas. Before AI came along, I would have never done this, it would have taken too much time and resources to do while taking care of a family and a home, building a company, raising a daughter.

My hope is this signal will cut through the noise, lord knows there’s a lot of it, and catch the attention of people that can help me put these ideas into practice. I can’t do it alone. No one can. We have to work together. We need experts. And we need people who care. We need people who are willing to take the time to research an issue to thoughtfully come up with an opinion on it. I’m that person. And I want other people who do that. America needs us. Humankind needs us. The world needs us.

We as humans are capable of so much more. Let’s come together and create a voice that says “we want change, we want to fix the system. And not get bogged down in minutiae.” The trick is, for some people, it’s not minutiae, it’s their lives, it’s their family, it’s their livelihood. We have to take that into account.

This is where I attempt to take the stream of consciousness that is my mind and turn it into coherent ideas/messages/

See, AI helps me because I would get bogged down trying to find the right word, phrase, etc and lose track of my main message/idea. This is how one can leverage AI, without letting your mind go to mush. Still doing the thinking, without doing all the legwork, it helps you stay focused. I can jot down my thoughts, inarticulate as may be, and then have them analyzed and organized and expressed in a coherent manner.

It always starts with “why does it work this way?” I’m not the scientist/researcher that figures out the science, I’m the engineer who applies it.

We need to engineer a better government. Let’s engineer a better government.


Another essay to write: Russia/Ukraine war
When you sit down and understand all the variables… all the pressures on Putin, how Russia is structured, how they operate, oil, population decline, being the strong man, how he views it as an existential problem. And then you look at the pressures on Zalinsky and Ukraine… there really is only one way out. Force. Or at least the threat of it. We need to cohesively put all those things together to illustrate why it is that way.



What if, instead of “the matrix” it’s more like being under water. Religion can constrain your thinking, and prevent you from rising to the top. For some it is just intelligence. Sorry. For some it is emotions. But there are very few that have made it to the surface.
An example: gender/pronouns. People who are religious/conservative have rigid ideas of gender and roles. Which get us bogged down into problems that don’t really matter.




Myths and comforting lies


Here’s what I can do that most people can’t: first principles analysis thinking. Like, people who can’t recognize fundamental truths. For example: guns have one fundamental purpose they are designed to kill (or at least import violence). Any thing else they do is a side effect. How to communicate/appeal to these people who don’t see the first principles?




For the about page: I dropped out of university, I never got a degree. All my education has been through self driven something probably includes books. When I encounter something I don’t understand, I try to understand it.

Another thing. With the blueprint I’m giving, you don’t need to be an expert in macroeconomics, foreign policy/trade, (other esoteric fields) to be able to be able to determine when you’re getting steamrolled? (What’s the word here?) I’m laying out an approach for the every day person to understand the system that affects us all, without having to be an expert in every field/area.







Add to Part 3 outline: A section on "The Citizens' Role: The Only Check That Can't Be Overridden" that connects directly to the Blueprint's mission.


2. Nash Equilibrium in the Glossary
Yes, absolutely. It's a valuable concept that will come up in multiple contexts. Should we also add:
* Prisoner's dilemma
* Race to the bottom
* Collective action problem
These are all related game theory concepts that help explain system failures.



When we get to education, talk about barely graduating high school and dropping out of college.i grew up thinking I was stupid, or at least below average intelligence. I failed English class nearly every term until my senior year of high school. Some teachers would recognize my intelligence, and still give me failing grades because I didn’t turn in the homework. 
School is setup and designed for certain types of individuals, and fails anyone else who doesn’t match. Well, it’s more like a Venn diagram where the more overlap you have with those types of individuals the better you can do. Family support and other things can make a huge difference. But I had a father that verbally berated and hit me with a belt when I didn’t get good grades. It was very much a “the beatings shall continue until morale improves.” Situation.

Another idea: maybe career politicians wouldn’t be such a bad idea? You could go to school and have to study many different fields, maybe even a bit of specialization. Like attorneys who want to do certain areas of law have to have a science degree.



Insight across P2.1 and P3.x pieces: it’s like we refuse to acknowledge the complexity and shoehorn everything into 18th & 19th century boxes. Back then they didn’t know as much as we do about science, economics, etc. etc. So now we have all the knowledge, but we never use/apply it. Or at least it takes a long long long time before that accrued knowledge makes its way into policy. We know enough about economics that a lot of these issues can be foreseen. E.g. Rent control. Eg. Supply-Demand recessions.



=====================

Tariffs are to job creation as bloodletting is to disease. Unless it is (the one disease that bloodletting actually helps with) then ???



==========

We can’t be responsible for other people’s feelings. DEI. pronouns. Camille Herron. Melissa’s crazy client.

This framework is about developing a bullshit detector. You can’t be an expert in every area. The dunning Kruger effect shows us how clueless people can be confident. It usually takes an expert to be able to identify whether someone has the knowledge in a field or not. If we can get a sufficient number of people to develop their bullshit detector, then we can create a system that makes it so you don’t have to be an expert in every field to be able to make an educated vote.

Another idea for a post: refactoring. In software refactoring means changing the way it does something while retaining what it does. We could “refactor government”

Gives me another idea: Government as an area of science or something? Have one group who studies and designs how government functions, and another group who actually does the governing. Don’t have Congress be in charge of defining how it functions. Their job is to create laws. Another body would dictate how they function. That creates a sort of check and balance. The people who decide how the government functions is different from the people who make the laws. I don’t know what it would look like exactly… It’s like how I’m a software architect. We need a governance architect. Or more likely plural.



What we are talking about building here is a system where you don’t have to be an expert in government, or economics, or foreign policy, or climate change to have your voice heard. We are designing a system that will ensure the people in government are incentivized to “do the right thing.” The same way you can rely on people scientists at the NTSB to test cars meet safety standards, the Governance Design Agency ensures government is functioning well (meeting standards?). If you want to learn and verify and validate that the GDA is doing what they say you can study the “science” the same way you would study physics to understand physics papers. But otherwise you can go about your day trusting the government is going to function. The same way you trust a car meets safety standards, the electricity functions, water turns on, sewers work. Basically this agency needs to become like a utility.

